hey this is precious tell Walker and
you're watching mind your decisions you
have a chocolate bar consisting of a
four by six grid of small squares what
is the minimum number of cuts to split
the bar into it's 24 small squares now
there are some restrictions on the kinds
of cuts you can make each cut has to be
along the horizontal and vertical lines
in between the squares and each cut also
has to start and end at points along the
boundary of a piece of chocolate the cut
cannot intersect itself and every time
you make a cut the chocolate bar is
split into separate pieces you can only
cut one piece at a time
here's an example of the kind of cut you
can make this problem was asked to
first-year students at a Greek
University the mathematician Peter
Winkler described it as follows in his
excellent book mathematical puzzles a
connoisseurs collection this
ridiculously easy puzzle has been known
to stump some very high-powered
mathematicians for as much as a full day
I encourage you to ask this problem to
see if you can stumped anyone but of
course you won't be stumping the many
very high-powered mathematicians who
watch mind your decisions can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution
the answer is you need to cut the bar 23
times one way to see this is using logic
at the beginning there is one piece and
you have not broken the bar at all zero
cuts after any one cut the bar will be
split into two pieces every subsequent
cut increases the number of pieces by
one as each time you split the bar you
are dividing some single piece into two
pieces
you can keep cutting the bar until there
are 24 squares as the number of cuts is
always 1 less than the number of pieces
the minimal number of cuts is 23 and it
actually doesn't even matter which
procedure you use to cut the bar it will
always be 23 cuts to end up with 24
squares now this is a perfectly valid
logical proof but some people will
prefer a little bit more formal of an
explanation the answer is that you will
need n minus 1 cuts for a bar with n
squares and you can prove this using
strong induction so for the base case in
a bar with one square you need to make
zero cuts and for a bar with two squares
you need to cut the bar one time now we
will assume for all whole numbers K
where K is greater than or equal to 1
but less than n that it takes K minus 1
cuts at minimum to divide the bar into
squares for a bar consisting of K
squares now assume we have a bar with n
squares after 1 cut the bar will be
divided into two pieces one with our
squares and another with n minus R
squares since R and n minus r are less
than n by the induction hypothesis we
can split the first piece into squares
using R minus 1 cuts and we can split
the second piece into squares using n
minus R minus 1 cuts including the first
cut we have made a total of 1 plus R
minus 1
plus n minus R minus one and this equals
n minus one cuts and this completes the
proof by induction did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video these
math videos which can be watched for
free on YouTube inspire and build
confidence for people around the world
and they already have over a hundred
million views let's share the beauty of
mathematics with your help we can map
the world a better place please
subscribe for free to get the news
videos watch and share all the mind your
decisions videos and email me a puzzle
or mat topic presh
and mind your decisions calm if you so
choose you can check on my books which
are listed in the video description and
you can support me on patreon for
exclusive rewards thanks for watching
and thanks for your support